Classes
=======

This is a complete list of available classes:

- [`Params\ConfigurableArrayObject`](Params/ConfigurableArrayObject.md) &mdash; Class that extends ArrayObject to be able to allow changes or not.
- [`Params\Immutable\ImmutableOptions`](Params/Immutable/ImmutableOptions.md) &mdash; Class that gives recursive read-only access to options added via constructor.
- [`Params\Immutable\ImmutableOptionsTrait`](Params/Immutable/ImmutableOptionsTrait.md) &mdash; Trait that contains an ImmutableOptions instance to use for nestable configuration options.
- [`Params\Immutable\ImmutableParameters`](Params/Immutable/ImmutableParameters.md) &mdash; Class that gives recursive read-only access to parameters added via constructor.
- [`Params\Immutable\ImmutableParametersTrait`](Params/Immutable/ImmutableParametersTrait.md) &mdash; Trait that contains an ImmutableParameters instance to use for nestable configuration parameters.
- [`Params\Immutable\ImmutableSettings`](Params/Immutable/ImmutableSettings.md) &mdash; Class that gives recursive read-only access to settings added via constructor.
- [`Params\Immutable\ImmutableSettingsTrait`](Params/Immutable/ImmutableSettingsTrait.md) &mdash; Trait that contains an ImmutableSettings instance to use for nestable configuration settings.
- [`Params\Options`](Params/Options.md) &mdash; Class that wraps an associative array for more convenient access of keys and values.
- [`Params\OptionsTrait`](Params/OptionsTrait.md) &mdash; Trait that contains an Options instance to use for nestable configuration options.
- [`Params\Parameters`](Params/Parameters.md) &mdash; Class that wraps an associative array for more convenient access of keys and values.
- [`Params\ParametersTrait`](Params/ParametersTrait.md) &mdash; Trait that contains a Parameters instance to use for nestable configuration parameters.
- [`Params\Settings`](Params/Settings.md) &mdash; Class that wraps an associative array for more convenient access of keys and values.
- [`Params\SettingsTrait`](Params/SettingsTrait.md) &mdash; Trait that contains a Settings instance to use for nestable mutable configuration settings.
